---------------------------------------------------------------
Date: Thu, 23 Apr 1998 21:11:55 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Rik <rik@Bijlmer.NL.net>
To: Mike Perkowitz <map@cs.washington.edu>
Subject: Juno Editor

Hello, 
Some time ago you posted an editor for the alpha Juno I sent you on your
Music/machines page (JunoEdit.zip an editor for the alpha juno 1 & 2 and
MKS-50 for windows 95/NT). Last week someone mailed me that the editor
doesnt work in his studio! I wondered if you have had similar complaints,
an if you could add a warning to the info of Junoedit.zip that according
to some people the editior doesnt work on their system. 
I am very sorry, and I am working on a fix for the problem right now, or
more accurately, I am trying to find the problem in the first place! 
In our studio we have an alpha Juno 1, the person who complained to me has
an alpha juno 2. Do you know if there are any (undocumented?) differences
between the sysex codes of the Juno 1 and 2?
bye, 
Rik

rik@hot.cl
-------------------------------------------------------------


Juno Editor for Windows 95/NT
version 2.01
(c) BijlmerSoft, Bijlmer Budget Studios - 1998

Editor for Roland Alpha Juno-1, Alpha Juno-2, and MKS-50


1 - Features:  This program should be very easy to use for any Juno owner
who has a PC with windows 95/NT. I have grouped the different sliders,not
in a logical, but in a quick-to-find way. The 'waveforms' and 'Envelope &
LFO' windows have a simple, pretty-but-useless g

raphical representation.  In this program a 'patch' means one sound
(preset or memory), a bank is a bank of eight sounds just like on the
Juno, and memory stands for all banks in the memory section. If you want
to save a sound in the permanent memory of your Juno you still have to

 do this by hand on your Juno.  This version only supports sending sysex
from the PC to the Juno, version 3.0 should support sysex both ways (MIDI
dump send/receive, and recording the changes made to parameters on your
Juno by hand). It should also feature 'grouping' sliders, so you can

 change several parameters at the same time.  Experienced windows users
can skip the 'how to use this program' part of this text. Do take note
however that you change names of patches by double-clicking the name of
the patch on the main window (an edit box then appears, enter the name,
and press [Ent

er] to enter the new name), which may not be immediately obvious. Also
note that every change you enter in the Juno Editor is only sent to the
patch (sound) you have presently selected on your Juno.

2 - Installation:  Nothing to it. This is a standalone program, it
requires no installation, no DLL's, VBX-es etc. It does not mess with your
system settings, registry etc. Just run (click) the JunoEdit.exe file. If
you want the preset names to appear in the menu, you must

make sure that the file 'presets.txt' is present in the same directory as
the program (JunoEdit.exe) file. There will be no stray files left
anywhere by this program, except for one: if you run this program when the
program can't find 'presets.txt', it cr

eates a dummy presets.txt file in the same directory as the program file
(JunoEdit.exe). I havent added the parameters of the presets (yet), as
this would be a lot of work, and not very useful if you ask me. They will
be added however, once I get the MIDI

 dump to work properly, in a future version. Uninstalling this program is
done by simply deleting it. 

3 - How to use this program:  I have tried to follow the windows protocol
as much as possible: you can change a parameter by moving the appropriate
slider (scrollbar) with your mouse, either by clicking the slider or the
arrows on the sides of the slider, or by dragging the button on

the slider. Select the window with the parameters you want to change from
the menu. Everything is also accessible from the PC keyboard. Select the
item you want from the menubar by pressing [Alt] + the underlined letter,
or with the arrow keys. Sliders ca

n also be controlled with the arrow keys, and you can swith to another
slider by pressing [Tab]. I will walk through the controls:  - Starting
the program:  When the program starts, you should see a little window on
the bottom right hand side of your screen. If your taskbar on your windows
desktop has it's auto hide option turned off (if it is always visible),
the Juno Editor window is partially hidden by you

r taskbar. Sorry, this is a bug, it will be fixed in a future version. You
can move the window to any part of the screen you like, by dragging it
with your mouse. I positioned it at the bottom right for my own
convenience.  - Midi Setup:  On the little window you should see two boxes
marked 'Port' and 'Channel'. These are off course the Midi Port you Juno
is connected to, and the Midi Channel it listens to. Default values are
Port 2 Channel 15 as in my studio, but you can change these sett

ings with the up/down arrows in these boxes, or by selecting the box (with
the mouse or with the [Tab] key) and entering the value you want on your
PC's keyboard.  Then Click the OK button to enter these settings, or
Cancel to cancel changing the Midi Settings. You can also select these
buttons with the [Tab] key and then press [Enter], or by pressing the key
with the underlined letter on the button you want to sele

ct. The Midi Setup part of the window then disappears. It will reappear
when you select 'Setup' from the MIDI menu.  - Changing the name of a
patch:  Double Click the name of the patch on the main window. That's the
little window you started with. (This is the only thing you can't do with
the PC keyboard only. I'll fix that for the next version) A box then
appears. Select this box (with [Tab] or with t

he mouse), and type the new name for the patch. Press enter to enter this
new name. (For some reason your PC-speaker then goes beep. This is a bug,
I'll fix it for a later version). It may strike you as strange, but Juno
Editor won't let you change the na

me of a preset (if you can, you've found a bug!). If you must, change the
names in the presets.txt file.  - The Menu: On the Menu bar of the main
window you should see the words File, Patches, Controls, MIDI and Help.
This is what they are for:  - File:  With Reset you can set all sliders in
a patch, bank or the entire memory to zero. These zeroes are only sent to
the patch you have presently selected on your Juno, it wont mute all your
sounds.  With Open you get the usual Windows open-dialog box that lets you
load a patch or a memory (all eight banks of memory) from disk. This
program only supports patches and memories saved with Juno Editor, as I
dont have the source of any other editor, I have

 no way of knowing the usual format of these files. This version does not
support the savin of banks, as I never use that feature my self, but I
could easily add it if someone needs it. Save As... opens the usual
windows save as-dialog box, to let you sav

e a patch or the entire memory to disk. The Option Save saved the patch
you are presently working on with the filename you last entered for it, or
with the same name as the patch if you havent entered a filename for it
yet. With Exit you close the Juno Ed

itor.  - Patches:  Under the Patches menu you find eight banks of presets
(not working in this version yet, but they're in your Juno if you want
them) and eight banks of memory. Each bank holds eight sounds, called
patches in this program. The banks and sounds are numbered

the same way as on your Juno.  You can select the patch (sound) you want
to edit by clicking it with your mouse, or with the PC keyboard as
described earlier. The presets are added for future expansion, i havent
entered the settings for the preset sounds yet, but I will fix this for a

future version. You can store settings in preset patches, and save them to
file if you want, but you can't save all the presets like you can save the
memory. If you feel like it you can enter the right settings for each
preset, and save them to patch file

s, or enter them in memory patches, and save them as a memory file. If you
do so, please send me a copy, so I can include them in the next version of
this program.  - Controls:  Here you find all parameters you can change
with this program. Upon selecting All Sliders, a large window appears,
that contains sliders (scrollbars) to change every parameter that makes up
a sound on the Juno. What I forgot to add were parameters that af

fect all sounds on your Juno (things like portamento on/off, portamento
time etc), these will be added in a future version. Every parameter is
named the same as on your Juno. With DCO, Waveforms, Filters, VCA,
Envelope & LFO and Modulation you open window

s to change the parameters that I find belong there for ease of use, which
may not allways be logical for the techies amongst you. I did this, so you
dont always have to have huge windows open, that block the view on the
sequencer program (or other progra

ms you may be running), so for the most part I have tried to put
parameters I might like to change at the same time on the same window. If
you think they should be arranged differently, please let me know.  All of
these 'controls'-windows communicate with each other. You can open and
close them at will without affecting their settings, you can even minimize
them, but I have had to make them non-resizeable for now. I may make them
all resizeable in the future

, (this is not difficult, but a lot of work).  - MIDI:  Under the MIDI
menu you'll find setup, with which you make the Midi port and Midi channel
setup dialog reappear on the main window. You'll also find Receive MIDI
Dump and Send MIDI Dump, which I have conveniently disabled for you, as
these options aren't

working yet.  - Help:  With Help in the Help Menu you make this text
appear, if it is in the same directory as the Juno Editor program
(JunoEdit.exe), and About makes a little About Box appear. I wont go
through the trouble of creating a proper windows help file if you dont min

d, as this program is (should be) so easy to use (just like the Juno) that
no one would use it anyway. 

4 - Error Messages / Trouble Shooting:  As I tried to follow the windows
protocol as much as possible, I made the error messages as puzzling,
criptical and non-informative as possible. They are there for debugging
purposes only. You should get an error message if the program can't find a
soundc

ard, if it cant find a midi port, if it can't open the midi port, etc. If
none of these things are the problem and the Juno Editor still doesn't
work properly, please let me know, I have only been able to test this
program on my computer with my Juno. Oth

er documented errors can be:  - If the program can't find the file
'helpfile.txt', or this file has become corrupted (if it has fewer than 64
names in it), the patches menu may not be created properly. If presets.txt
is missing, all presets will simply be named preset. If it has been

corrupted, just delete it, or replace it with a text file (.txt format) of
your own, any 64 names will do.  - If the program can't find this text in
Rich Text format (helpfile.rtf) in thre same directory (folder) as the
Juno Editor program file (JunoEdit.exe), the help window may be blank.  -
Sometimes the drivers of Windows 95 can get corrupted. When this happons
Juno Editor may fail to open the selected Midi Port, or even open it
successfully but under a wrong port number! The best possible remedy I can
think of is to restart Windows, or i

f that doesnt work, to reset your PC. 

5 - Notes / Obligatory Disclaimer:  I wrote this program because I wanted
to use it my self, not to make money as a custom software developer.
Therefore anyone else can use it for free. There are no annoying shareware
hints. This program may be freely distributed (but not sold!) for any pur

pose, except to make fun of me. I may make the source codes (Borland
Delphi 3.0 / Object Pascal) available if you want to improve or customize
it, just let me know.  As I didn't write this program as an official
commercial release, I cannot guarantee the stability of this program. I
haven't experienced any problems so far, but I won't be held responsible
for any loss of data resulting from the use of this Juno Editor. 

 If in any event this program crashes, and you can't close it, press
[Ctrl-Alt-Del] or right-click the taskbar on your desktop, and select task
manager to end the task (called JunoEdit.exe). However, it has never
crashed on any of the PC's I have tested i

t on, and so far I haven't found any bugs other than the ones I have
mentioned earlier. 

6 - System Requirements:  This program has been tested on a 486/40 mHz PC
and on a Cyrix P200+ PC, both with a (the same) Turtle Beach Maui Midi
card, in a home studio that includes several different synthesizers and a
drummachine. It has also been tested running together with two

 different popular commercial sequencer programs, and it seems to run
smoothly, without affecting the sequencer programs or the timing, or any
of the other synthesizers in any noticeable way. The program communicates
with windows, not with the hardware di

rectly, so it shouldn't make any difference what kind of soundcard you
have. Juno Editor should run on any PC capable of running Windows 95. 

7 - About Us:  The Bijlmer Budget Studios* are located in Amsterdam, the
Netherlands.  If you encounter any bugs, or the program doesn't work
properly, or not at all, please let us know. Also if you have suggestions
for improvement, let us know.  You can contact BijlmerSoft and the Bijlmer
Budget Studios by sending an e-mail to rik@hot.cl (Rik) or merijn@hot.cl
(Merijn). 

Rik v. E. <rik@hot.cl> Merijn S. <merijn@hot.cl>

*The tiniest and nastiest studio complex in the world! 

